Ms. Sanders:  Good afternoon.
Earlier today, the President
signed a bipartisan,
anti-sex trafficking bill
that provides law
enforcement officials,
including state attorneys
general and local prosecutors,
invaluable tools.
The new law makes it clearer
to take legal action
against websites
promoting advertisements
for this modern-day slavery.
Human trafficking
is one of the most
barbaric types of exploitation,
and President Trump
has been clear
that it has no place
in our world.
Advocates have long pointed
to these websites
as profiting
from trafficking,
including of children.
It also provides new legal
recourses for victims
and law enforcement
by enhancing penalties
for people who promote
or facilitate prostitution.
Yesterday, the President
signed an Executive Order
on Reducing Poverty in America
by Promoting Opportunity
and Economic Mobility.
The order provides nine
principles of economic mobility
that will guide agencies
that administer public
assistance programs
to review all regulations
relating to work
and send a report
to the President
on what they can do
to get Americans back to work.
The Trump administration
recognizes that many states
have been successful enacting
commonsense work requirements
and are seeing
positive results,
improving the lives of thousands
of individuals and families.
Many others have noticed
and are leading the charge
to provide greater opportunities
to their citizens.
President Trump believes
we can lift our citizens
from welfare to work,
from dependence to independence,
and from poverty to prosperity.
We are also glad to see
California Governor Jerry Brown
work with the administration
and send members
of the National Guard
to help secure
the southern border.
And with that,
I'll take your questions.
John.
The Press: Sarah, the Russian
military has come out
and said that there was
no poison gas attack.
That was Sergey Lavrov
the other day
who said they got
no evidence of it.
Today, a Russian
military official says,
oh, there was an attack,
but it was staged
by the White Helmets
brigade component
of the rebels in Syria.
What do you say to
the Russian statement
that this thing was staged
by the White Helmets?
Ms. Sanders:  The
intelligence provided
certainly paints
a different picture,
and the President
holds Syria and Russia
responsible for this
chemical weapons attack.
The Press: I have
an unrelated question
on the Cohen raids
the other day.
It now looks
as though prosecutors
were looking for some
sort of documentation
that might have been connected
with the Access Hollywood tape,
as you know came out
during the campaign,
which you were a part of.
And that is an effort
to connect the dots
between subsequent payments that
were made to keep people quiet,
which may constitute
some sort of FEC violation
for an illegal
campaign contribution.
If the Mueller investigation
has now morphed
from looking at
Russian collusion
to an illegal
campaign contribution
by the President's
personal attorney,
would the President
consider that to be
the Mueller investigation
has strayed outside
of its initial mandate?
Ms. Sanders:  The President
certainly has been clear
that he has a very deep concern
about the direction
that the Special Counsel
and other investigations
have taken.
This investigation started off
as Russia collusion,
of which there was none.
It has been very clear
that nothing has come up
over the last year,
and the President has spoken
at length on this topic.
While the media continues
to focus on this,
despite the fact that there's
been no evidence after a year,
we're going to continue
to stay focused on the issues.
Yamiche.
The Press: A source, today,
told me that
President Trump is concerned
that Paul Ryan's retiring
and not seeking reelection
might encourage
other Republicans
to also not seek reelection.
What do you say about that?
Ms. Sanders:  We certainly hope
that Republicans will continue
to remain in the House,
especially those that support
the President's agenda.
And those that are campaigning,
we look forward to a number
of them coming out
and also supporting
the President's agenda.
I can't get into
a lot of details
about specifics of individuals
running for office.
But the President
has been very clear
about how he feels
about Speaker Ryan.
He knows that he's
a truly good man
and will leave a legacy
of achievement
that nobody can question.
And he wishes him well as he
moves forward in his future.
The Press: And Representative
Scalise told me today --
he said that there's
a tough political climate
in that Republicans were already
facing a lot of challenges
and a lot of problems
going forward.
There are some people, though,
that think that President Trump
is part of the problem
that Republicans have --
that his rhetoric,
his actions have made it
harder for Republicans
to win midterm elections.
What does the President
think about that?
And does he actually plan
to campaign with people?
And does he think at all that
he could hurt the chances
of some Republicans
if he goes out in the field?
Ms. Sanders:  We think
that Republicans,
particularly the President,
have a great story to tell
moving into the midterms.
We've had an incredibly
successful first year
and a half, focused on tax cuts,
deregulation,
working towards
the defeat of ISIS,
remaking of the judiciary,
and a number of other things
that we consider
to be great successes
and great things for Republicans
to talk about as they look
forward to the future.
Michelle.
The Press: Thanks, Sarah.
With Syria set to chair the U.N.
Conference on Disarmament
next month,
will the President consider,
or does he have any plans
to pull the U.S.
out for the duration of Syria
presiding over that group?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have any
specific announcements
on that front right now.
The Press: And is
the White House concerned
with Facebook's efforts
to silence conservatives?
It's been a topic on the Hill
today and yesterday.
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly,
the White House would always
support not just conservatives
but everyone having
the ability to speak freely
on a number of platforms
across this country,
and we certainly support
the Constitution
that provides that right.
Steven.
The Press: Two questions about
the President's statement
this morning.
What does "Get ready
Russia," mean?
Is the United States planning
to target Russian assets,
personnel in Syria
as part of the attack
that the President himself
said is coming --
the missiles are coming?
What does it mean?
Ms. Sanders: We're maintaining
that we have
a number of options,
and all of those options
are still on the table.
Final decisions haven't been
made yet on that front.
The Press: So does it mean
anything at all?
What does it mean?
Ms. Sanders:  It
certainly means --
I think there's a lot there
that you can read from.
But at the same time,
the President has a number
of options at his disposal,
and all of those options
remain on the table,
and we're continuing to look
at each one of them.
The Press: If I might follow up
with a separate question
about another one of the
President's tweets this morning:
Can you explain how the
Special Counsel investigation
has made for "bad blood"
with Russia?
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly, I think
that the President
has been extremely clear
that the constant
focus of the fact
that the President
and his campaign
had any collusion with Russia
has hurt those relationships.
The President has maintained,
for a very long time,
that the United States
and Russia
having a good relationship
is good for the world.
He certainly
still believes that.
But at the same time, that's
hampered the ability to do so,
as well as the actions --
particularly the bad actions --
that Russia has taken,
including meddling in our
election among other things.
But tying the President
to that has created
a lot of unnecessary problems.
Mike.
The Press: Two quick questions.
You said that the final decision
on Syria hasn't been made yet.
Does the President's
emoting on Twitter
complicate the planning on this
or present
a national security risk?
Ms. Sanders:  Not at all.
The Press: And on Michael Cohen,
the Wall Street Journal
and others have reported
that Rosenstein signed off
on the search warrant here.
Does the White House believe
this was a wrong decision
from Mr. Rosenstein?
And do they think
he should step down?
Ms. Sanders: Once again,
I'm not going to get into
the process,
and that was something
that you would have to talk
to the Department
of Justice about.
In terms of personnel,
I don't have any announcements.
Hallie.
The Press: Sarah, two on Syria.
Given your comments
given here at the podium,
given the President's
tweets this morning,
is the White House prepared
for the possibility
of direct military
engagement with Russia?
Ms. Sanders:  Once again,
all options are on the table,
and I don't have any
further announcements about --
The Press: It sounds like a yes.
Just -- I want to be clear.
Ms. Sanders:  It sounds like
all options are on the table,
and a final decision
hasn't been made,
but we'll keep you
posted once it is.
The Press: And then let me
ask that follow-up, too.
The President, as you know,
back in 2013,
talked about why,
when it comes to Syria,
we can't just, in his words,
be quiet and, if we attack
at all, catch them by surprise.
Obviously, the President didn't
talk about a date or a time
for any kind of attack on Syria,
but he did talk about,
as Steven points out,
"get ready" for something.
Why this time is the President
not taking his own advice
and being "quiet," as he put it?
Ms. Sanders:  The President,
like you said --
and actually answered
my question for me --
has not laid out a timetable,
and he has a number
of other options as well.
And we're considering
all of those options
and a number
of different timetables
of what any action we may
or may not take would look like.
The Press: So that 48-hour
timetable is out the window
that he talked about Monday?
We should disregard that?
Ms. Sanders:  In a public sense,
certainly the President
has made some decisions.
He made a decision
not to travel to Latin America
so that we could focus on this.
That was the first step
in this process,
but we're continuing to look
at a number of options.
Jon.
The Press: But, Sarah,
the President was direct
in talking about missiles.
He said,  Get ready Russia,
because they will be coming,
nice and new and  smart!'
Why is the President
telegraphing military
intentions on Twitter;
announcing, effectively,
an attack on Twitter?
Ms. Sanders:  Again,
the President has not
laid out a timetable
and still leaving a number
of other options on the table.
And we're still considering
a number of those,
and a final decision
on that front hasn't been made.
The Press: And if I could ask --
another one of the tweets,
which Steven asked about,
is also pretty direct here.
He says, &bad blood with Russia
is caused by the Fake & Corrupt
Russia Investigation.
Isn't it Russia's support
for what the President himself
calls a  Gas Killing Animal,
or its meddling
in our elections,
or its military
intervention in Ukraine --
aren't those the actions
that have cause bad blood?
(Inaudible)
Robert Mueller?
Ms. Sanders: It's both
of those things.
Neither one of those things
are good for our country.
The President has been clear
that the relationship
with Russia
is at a new low, and that's due
to a number of factors.
Certainly, the things
that you listed off,
as well as the investigation,
are all things that have hurt
that relationship.
The Press: So, Robert Mueller's
actions are similar to --
I mean, another --
Ms. Sanders: I didn't say that.
You're certainly putting
words into my mouth.
The Press: Well, he's the one
that said "is."
He's the one that --
Ms. Sanders:  I said that both
of those things are bad
for America,
that's all I said.
Jeff, go ahead.
The Press: Sarah,
Russia responded
to the President's tweet
by saying,
"Smart missiles should
fly towards terrorists,
and not towards
the lawful government."
What's the White House's
reaction to that?
Ms. Sanders:  I think that the
President has been pretty clear
what his position
is on this front.
Russia has proven themselves to
be responsible in part for this.
They guaranteed that the use
of chemical weapons by Syria
would not happen again.
They failed at that.
They've also helped enable Syria
by vetoing six different
U.N. resolutions that
have helped protect Assad.
So they certainly hold
some responsibility in this,
and certainly have
proven themselves to be
bad actors in this process.
The Press: Is the White House
or the State Department
in any kind of backchannel
discussions with Russia
to defuse the tension?
And does the President
still hope to meet
with President Putin
sometime soon?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have any
announcements on either front.
I can't get into the specifics
on any conversations.
David.
The Press: Jim Mattis and Mike
Pompeo were spotted today.
Did the President meet with them
to talk about Syria?
And if so, what came out
of that meeting?
Ms. Sanders: The President's
national security team
met today.
That meeting was chaired
by the Vice President
to discuss a number of options.
Blake.
The Press: Sarah, you just said
that the intelligence provided
certainly paints
a different picture,
and that the President
holds Syria and Russia
responsible for the attack.
However, earlier this morning,
the Defense Secretary said,
"We're still assessing
the intelligence --
ourselves, we're still
working on this."
So what has changed over
the last handful of hours
from when the Defense
Secretary said,
We're still assessing
the intelligence,
and now, to where
you clearly point
the finger at Russia and Syria?
Ms. Sanders:  As I just stated
to both Jeff and Jonathan,
Russia holds some responsibility
in the fact that they guaranteed
that Syria wouldn't use chemical
weapons again, and they did.
They also hold some
responsibility in the fact
that they have the six
U.N. resolutions
that they vetoed
to help protect Assad.
Both of those things
lie at Russia's feet
in terms of responsibility
in this process.
The Press: So then you still are
assessing the intelligence
then as the Defense Secretary
stated before?
Ms. Sanders: Certainly,
there are things that are
being assessed.
I can't get into the details.
But we're confident
in the part of this process
that we're in
to feel comfortable
making the assertions
that we have earlier today.
Francesca.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
You said all these things
about Russia
and that
they've been bad actors,
they voted against the United
Nations Security Council
resolutions, as well.
And this morning,
the President, on Twitter,
said that Russia is supported
a  Gas Killing Animal.
So does the President
now believe
that Russia has firmly
established itself
as an enemy of America,
especially since Russia has said
that it will shoot down
U.S. missiles
if the President
fires upon Syria?
Ms. Sanders: We certainly think
they've proven
to be a bad actor,
and we hope that
that will change.
April.
The Press: What about
an enemy, though?
Are they an enemy, though,
of America at this point?
Ms. Sanders: That's something
that Russia needs to play
a role in determining.
We hope that
they will continue --
or not continue, I'm sorry,
to be a bad actor,
and make some changes
in their behavior.
But that's something that Russia
will have to play a role
in determining.
The Press: And one separate --
just really quick.
Ms. Sanders: Sorry, Francesca,
I'm going to keep going.
April.
The Press: Sarah, as you say,
"All options are on the table"
when it comes to Syria
and Russia.
Has diplomacy been exhausted?
That's an option, as well.
Ms. Sanders:  As I said,
all options are on the table.
The Press: So, it has not --
is there -- are you saying --
Ms. Sanders:  Again, all options
are on the table.
That contains a number
of different things.
The Press: So, diplomacy
could still be in play?
Ms. Sanders:  It could be.
But there are a lot
of other options
that are also on the table.
The Press: Sarah,
four senators -- two Dems,
two Republicans -- have a bill
to ensure that a Special Counsel
isn't fired
for political reasons.
Does the White House
support that bill?
Does the White House think
a bill like that is necessary?
Ms. Sanders: We don't have
an administrative policy
on that right now.
John.
The Press: Yeah, thank you,
Sarah, two questions.
On Monday I asked you
if the President had contacted
President Macron
and Prime Minister May
about an alliance
with France and England,
not unlike that that President
Obama tried to forge in 2013.
He has had two conversations
with both of them.
Have there been
any new developments?
I mean, has he spoken with
any other world leaders,
especially those
in Central Europe,
about a larger coalition
instead of the U.S.
going it alone in Syria?
Ms. Sanders: Yeah, we've had
regular contact
with regional allies
and partners,
including Israel, Saudi Arabia,
France, and the UK,
as well as a number of other
countries at various levels.
The Press: What about
Central Europe?
Ms. Sanders:  We provided
readouts of the conversations
the President has directly had,
but both the National
Security Advisor
as well as the
Secretary of Defense,
the Acting Secretary of State,
and a number of others
within the administration
have had regular contact
with their counterparts
from a number
of other countries.
The Press: And the other thing
I wanted to ask:
The President has
a good relationship
with Congressman Scalise,
a good, personal relationship
with his family.
What does he think
about the reports
that Congressman Scalise
will run for Speaker soon?
Ms. Sanders:  The President has
a great relationship
with a number of members
in the House of Representatives
who support his agenda,
and he looks forward
to working with all of them
over the course
of the next six and a half --
seven years, I guess,
my math is not great.
Tamara.
The Press: Yeah,
is the President considering
firing or in other ways
pushing out Rosenstein?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have
any personnel announcements
on this front.
The Press: Just one other thing.
Paul Ryan today
said that he's been given
assurances by the White House
that the President
isn't planning to fire
Rosenstein or Mueller.
Do you know where he's
getting those assurances?
Is it coming from the President?
Is it coming from others?
Where is it coming from?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I don't
have any announcements
on that front.
Steve.
The Press: Sarah,
Senator Markey,
a member of the Foreign
Relations Committee,
said today that the President
must come to Congress
for authorization
prior to another
military strike on Syria.
And there are others
who are also saying that.
Does the administration
intend to do that?
And if not, why not?
Ms. Sanders:  Obviously,
the administration will follow
whatever laws and regulations
are necessary
for any actions that we take.
Because we haven't laid out
any specific actions
that we plan to take,
I can't tell you
exactly what needs
we would have to
go to Congress with.
Jim.
The Press: It sounds
like the President
hasn't really left
a lot of wiggle room.
You said that all options
are on the table,
but when the President says,
Get ready Russia&they
will be coming,
the missiles are coming,
how is that anything
but an announcement
of a pending airstrike?
Ms. Sanders: That's
certainly one option,
but that doesn't mean
it's the only option
or the only thing that
the President may or may not do.
Just because he does one thing
doesn't mean
he can't do a number
of other actions as well.
The Press: Isn't
that telegraphing?
Ms. Sanders: And he certainly
hasn't laid out the timetable
which would be broadcasting
his intentions.
The Press: One other quick thing
on Speaker Ryan's announcement.
There are some fears up
on Capitol Hill,
and we understand some
in the White House,
that a Democratic wave
is coming;
it could sweep the Republicans
out of power in the House
and that could potentially lead
to impeachment proceedings
that the Democrats
could bring forward.
What is the President's
thinking on that?
What is your thinking on that?
Ms. Sanders:  Like I said
earlier,
we are very confident
in the record
that we have and the very
successful first year
and a half that the President
has had in office,
and we expect to talk
about that a lot.
We'd love for you guys to talk
about that a lot more, too.
And we'd be happy to send you
some talking points
if you need
some guidance on that.
The Press: Do you think
a wave is coming?
You think a wave is coming?
Ms. Sanders:  We certainly think
we have a great story to tell,
and we think America will be
ready to listen to that
and certainly has, I think,
felt the impact,
certainly from
an economic standpoint
for this administration.
And we're proud of that.
I'll take one last question,
right here, Andrew.
The Press: Just to follow up
on Jeff and April's question,
is there anything
that Syria or Russia
could do at this point
to avoid military action?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I'm not
going to get ahead of anything.
But certainly, like I've said
a few times today,
all options are on the table
and we'll continue conversations
with our allies and partners
and move forward
from that point.
Thanks so much, guys,
have a great day.